# rush-py

<!-- WARNING: THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! -->

# Quickstart

This document will walk through executing jobs on the rush platform. For
a comprehensive guide on the concepts and constructing a full workflow,
see the [full rush-py
explainer](https://talo.github.io/rush-py/full-rush-py-explainer.html)
document.

First, install the following modules via pip—we require Python ≥ 3.10:

    pip install rush-py pdb-tools

# 0) Setup

This is where we prepare the rush client, directories, and input data
we’ll be working with.

## 0.0) Imports

``` python
import os
import tarfile
from datetime import datetime
from pathlib import Path

import py3Dmol
import requests
from pdbtools import pdb_delhetatm, pdb_fetch, pdb_selchain

import rush
```

**NOTE**: This walkthrough assumes that you are running code in a
Jupyter notebook, which allows for top level `await` calls. If you are
writing a normal Python script, you will need to wrap your code in
something like the following:

``` python
import asyncio
def main():
    #your code here
asyncio.run(main)
```

## 0.1) Credentials

Retrieve your API token from the [Rush
UI](https://rush.qdx.co/dashboard/settings).

You can either set the `RUSH_URL` and `RUSH_TOKEN` environment variables
or provide them as variables to the client directly.

To see how to set environment variables,
[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Environment_variable) has an
extensive article.

``` python
RUSH_URL = os.getenv("RUSH_URL") or "https://tengu.qdx.ai"
RUSH_TOKEN = os.getenv("RUSH_TOKEN") or "YOUR_TOKEN_HERE"
```

## 0.2) Configuration

Lets set some global variables that define our project. These are not
required, but are good practice to help organize the jobs that will be
persisted under your account.

Make sure you create a unique set of tags for each run. Good practice is
to have at least each of the experiment name and system name as a tag.

``` python
EXPERIMENT = "rush-py-quickstart"
SYSTEM = "1B39"
TAGS = ["qdx", EXPERIMENT, SYSTEM]
```

## 0.2) Build your client

Get our client, which we’ll use for calling modules and generally for
using the Rush API.

As mentioned earlier, `url` and `access_token` are optional if you have
set the env variables `RUSH_URL` and `RUSH_TOKEN` respectively.

`batch_tags` will be applied to each run that is spawned by this client.

A folder called `.rush` will be created in your workspace directory
(defaults to the current working directory, can be overridden by passing
`workspace=` to the provider builder).

``` python
# By using the `build_provider_with_functions` method,
# we will also build helper functions calling each module
client = await rush.build_provider_with_functions(url=RUSH_URL, access_token=RUSH_TOKEN, batch_tags=TAGS)
```

## 0.3) Input selection

Fetch data files from RCSB to pass as input to the modules:

``` python
PROTEIN_PDB_PATH = client.workspace / f"{SYSTEM}_P.pdb"

complex = list(pdb_fetch.fetch_structure(SYSTEM))
protein = pdb_delhetatm.remove_hetatm(pdb_selchain.select_chain(complex, "A"))
with open(PROTEIN_PDB_PATH, "w") as f:
    for l in protein:
        f.write(str(l))
```

``` python
help(client.convert)
```

    Help on function convert in module rush.provider:

    async convert(*args: *tuple[EnumValue, RushObject[bytes]], target: 'Target | None' = None, resources: 'Resources | None' = {'storage': 10, 'storage_units': 'MB', 'gpus': 0}, tags: 'list[str] | None' = None, restore: 'bool | None' = None) -> tuple[RushObject[list[Conformer]]]
        Convert biomolecular and chemical file formats to the QDX file format. Supports PDB and SDF
        
        Module version:  
        `github:talo/tengu-prelude/efc6d8b3a8cc342cd9866d037abb77dac40a4d56#convert`
        
        QDX Type Description:
        
            format: PDB | SDF;
            input: @bytes
            ->
            output: @[Conformer]
        
        
        :param format: the format of the input file
        :param input: the input file
        :return output: the output conformers

# 1) Running Rush Modules

You can view which modules are available, alongside their documentation,
in the [API Documentation](https://talo.github.io/rush-py/api/).

## 1.1) Prep the protein

First we will run the protein preparation routine (using pdbfixer and
pdb2pqr internally) to prepare the protein for a molecular dynamics
simulation.

``` python
# we can check the arguments and outputs for prepare_protein with help()
help(client.prepare_protein)
```

    Help on function prepare_protein in module rush.provider:

    async prepare_protein(*args: *tuple[RushObject[bytes]], target: 'Target | None' = None, resources: 'Resources | None' = {'storage': 138, 'storage_units': 'MB', 'gpus': 1}, tags: 'list[str] | None' = None, restore: 'bool | None' = None) -> tuple[RushObject[list[Conformer]], RushObject[bytes]]
        Prepare a PDB for downstream tasks: protonate, fill missing atoms, etc.
        
        Module version:  
        `github:talo/prepare_protein/83bed2ad1f01f495c94518717f9f5b1bd7fe855c#prepare_protein_tengu`
        
        QDX Type Description:
        
            input_pdb: @bytes
            ->
            output_qdxf: @[Conformer];
            output_pdb: @bytes
        
        
        :param input_pdb: An input protein as a file; one PDB file
        :return output_qdxf: An output protein a vec: one qdxf per model in pdb
        :return output_pdb: An output protein as a file: one PDB file

``` python
# Here we run the function, it will return a Provider.Arg which you can use to
# fetch the results
# We set restore = True so that we can restore a previous run to the same path
# with the same tags
prepared_protein_qdxf, prepared_protein_pdb = await client.prepare_protein(
    PROTEIN_PDB_PATH,
)
# This initially only has the id of your result; we will show how to fetch the
# actual value later
prepared_protein_qdxf
```

    2024-02-16 17:14:00,643 - rush - INFO - Trying to restore job with tags: ['qdx', 'rush-py-quickstart', '1B39'] and path: github:talo/prepare_protein/83bed2ad1f01f495c94518717f9f5b1bd7fe855c#prepare_protein_tengu
    2024-02-16 17:14:00,835 - rush - INFO - Restoring job from previous run with id b073d2c8-5754-4b8e-8bd4-31d7b2c6a0b7

    Arg(id=906fad5a-4829-4a39-8ffa-73bcdfd82c17, value=None)

## 1.3) Run statuses

This will show the status of all of your runs. You can also view run
statuses on the [Rush UI](https://rush.qdx.co/dashboard/jobs).

``` python
await client.status()
```

    {}

## 1.4) Run Values

This will return the “value” of the output from the function—for files
you will recieve a url that you can download, otherwise you will recieve
them as python types:

``` python
protein_qdxf_value = await prepared_protein_qdxf.get()
len(protein_qdxf_value[0]["topology"]["symbols"])
```

    4849

## 1.5) Downloads

We provide a utility to download files into your workspace, you can
either provide a filename, which will be saved in
`workspace/objects/[filename]`, or you can provide your own filepath
which the client will use as-is:

``` python
await prepared_protein_pdb.download(filename="01_prepared_protein.pdb", overwrite=True)
```

``` python
# we can read our prepared protein pdb like this
with open(client.workspace / "objects" / "01_prepared_protein.pdb", "r") as f:
    print(f.readline(), "...")
```

    REMARK   1 CREATED WITH OPENMM 8.0, 2024-02-10
     ...
